%%%% 3DLDF.texi
   
%% This file is part of the GNU 3DLDF User Manual.

%% Copyright (C) 2013 The Free Software Foundation

%% See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
%% fdl.texi for copying conditions.

\font\logofont=logo10 % font used for the METAFONT logo, etc.

\newlinechar=`^^J

%% Kludge!!  Actually, Kludges.  LDF 2002.11.19.
%% How do I define new macros for 
%% math mode??  Also, I'm not sure that these are the best 
%% symbols.

\newbox\PPbox % symbol for ++
\setbox\PPbox=\hbox{\kern.5pt\raise1pt\hbox{\sevenrm+\kern-1pt+}\kern.5pt}
\def\PP{\copy\PPbox}
%%\let\mc=\ninerm % medium caps
\let\mc=\tenrm % LDF 2002.11.16.  Trying this out. 
\def\CPLUSPLUS{{\mc C\PP\spacefactor1000}}

\newskip\displayskip


\font\manual=manfnt % font used for the METAFONT logo, etc.


%% `\MetaPost' is defined here so that it can be used in the 
%% `@copying' section.  `@MP' is defined below the latter.
%% LDF 2004.10.29.

\def\MetaPost{{\logofont META}\-{\logofont POST}}

\def\DEGREES#1{$#1^\circ$}

%% Macros and declarations for syntax rules.
%% LDF 2004.12.03.

\def\<#1>{$\langle$\rm{#1}$\rangle$}

\def\lra{$\longrightarrow$}

\def\vrt{$\vert$}
\def\uscr{{\tt \char`\_}}


\newskip\syntaxhskip
\syntaxhskip=3pc 

\newskip\preruleskip
\newskip\interruleskip
\newskip\postruleskip

\preruleskip=.5\baselineskip

\interruleskip=.5\baselineskip

\postruleskip=.5\baselineskip


%% End of macros and declarations for syntax rules.
%% LDF 2004.12.03.

\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-

@c %**start of header
@setfilename 3DLDF.info
@settitle GNU 3DLDF User and Reference Manual

@defindex cb      @c Combined Index
@defcodeindex cm  @c 3DLDF Command Index
@defcodeindex ct  @c C++ Data Type Index
@defcodeindex cv  @c C++ Variable Index

@c %**end of header

@set EDITION 1.2.0
@set VERSION 1.2.0
@set UPDATED 1 February 2008
@set UPDATE-MONTH February 2008


@c *********************

@copying
This is the GNU 3DLDF User and Reference Manual, edition @value{EDITION} for
GNU 3DLDF @value{VERSION}.  This manual was last updated on
@value{UPDATED}. 
GNU 3DLDF is a package for three-dimensional drawing with 
MetaPost output. 
The author is Laurence D. Finston.

Copyright @copyright{} 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 The Free Software Association

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled 
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@c *********************

@c Added @dircategory and @direntry at the suggestion of 
@c Andreas Voegele.  LDF 2003.12.01.

@dircategory GNU packages
@direntry
* GNU 3DLDF: (GNU 3DLDF).            3D drawing with MetaPost output.
@end direntry


@c *********************


@c @setchapternewpage odd
@c @setchapternewpage off  @c For saving paper.  LDF 2003.08.20.



@c *********************

@titlepage
@title GNU 3DLDF User and Reference Manual
@subtitle Three-dimensional drawing with MetaPost output.
@subtitle Manual edition @value{EDITION} for GNU 3DLDF Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATE-MONTH}
@author Laurence D. Finston

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@headings on


@c Comment-out to save paper.
@shortcontents

@contents

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)

@ifnottex
@insertcopying

Please note that the figures cannot be shown in the Info output
format.  
@end ifnottex


@menu
* Introduction::                
* Concept Index::               
@end menu

@include intro.texi

@page
@include fdl.texi

@page
@c Concept Index      (c)
@include concidx.texi

@bye

@c Local Variables:
@c abbrev-mode:t
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode t)
@c eval:(auto-fill-mode t)
@c End:

