@c biblio.texi
         
@c This file is part of the 3DLDF User and Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 The Free Software Foundation 
@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@node Bibliography, GNU Free Documentation License, Changes, Top
@unnumbered Bibliography

@c I'm not happy with the formatting of the bibliography entries, but I
@c wasn't able to fix it.  I tried various solutions involving \hangafter
@c and \hangindent and macros, but none of them worked.  LDF 2003.12.07.
@c 
@c Nor was I able to prevent the displayed comment about Vredemann de Vries
@c from being split from the entry.  !! I think fixing these problems
@c will involve  fixing texinfo.tex.  LDF 2003.12.07.

Cundy, H. Martyn and A.P. Rollet.
@i{Mathematical Models}.
Oxford 1961. 
Oxford University Press.

@display
Unfortunately out of print.
@end display
@bibskip


@noindent
Finston, Laurence D.
@i{3DLDF:  The Program}.
G@"{o}ttingen 2003.
@bibskip

@noindent
Fischer, Gerd.
@i{Ebene algebraische Kurven}.
Vieweg Studium.  Aufbaukurs Mathematik.
Friedr.@w{ }Vieweg & Sohn Verlagsgesellschaft mbH.
Braunschweig/Wiesbaden 1994.
@bibskip

@noindent
Gill, Robert W.
@i{Creative Perspective}.
London 1975.
Thames and Hudson Ltd.
@w{ISBN 0-500-27056-2.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Harbison, Samuel P., and Guy L. Steele Jr.
@i{C, A Reference Manual}.
Prentice Hall.
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 1995.
@w{ISBN 0-13-326232-4 @OCB{}Case@CCB{}.}
@w{ISBN~0-13-326224-3 @OCB{}Paperback@CCB{}.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Hobby, John D. 
@i{Smooth, Easy to Compute Interpolating Splines}. 
Discrete and Computational Geometery 1(2).
Springer-Verlag.
New York 1986. 
@bibskip

@noindent
Hobby, John D.
@i{A User's Manual for MetaPost}.
AT & T Bell Laboratories.
Murray Hill, NJ. No date.
@bibskip

@noindent
Jones, Huw.
@i{Computer Graphics through Key Mathematics}.
Springer-Verlag London Limited 2001.
@w{ISBN 1-85233-422-3.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Knuth, Donald Ervin.
@i{Metafont:  The Program}. Computers and Typesetting; D.
Addison Wesley Publishing Company, Inc.
Reading, Massachusetts 1986.
@w{ISBN 0-201-13438-1.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Knuth, Donald Ervin.
@i{The METAFONTbook}. 
Computers and Typesetting; C.
Addison Wesley Publishing Company, Inc.
Reading, Massachusetts 1986.
@bibskip

@noindent
Knuth, Donald Ervin.
@i{@TeX{}: The Program}. Computers and Typesetting; B.
Addison Wesley Publishing Company, Inc.
Reading, Massachusetts 1986.
@w{ISBN 0-201-13437-3.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Knuth, Donald E. @i{The @TeX{}book}. 
Computers and Typesetting; A.
Addison Wesley Publishing Company, Inc.
Reading, Massachusetts 1986. 
@bibskip

@noindent
Knuth, Donald E. and Silvio Levy.  
@i{The @b{CWEB} System of Structured Documentation}.
@w{Version 3.64---February 2002.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Rokicki, Tomas.
@i{Dvips: A DVI-to-PostScript Translator}
for version 5.66a.
February 1997.
@uref{http://dante.ctan.org/CTAN/dviware/dvips/}
@bibskip

@noindent
Salomon, David.  
@i{Computer Graphics and Geometric Modeling}.
Berlin 1999.
Springer-Verlag.
@w{ISBN: 0-387-98682-0.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Stallman, Richard M. and Roland McGrath.
@i{GNU Make.  A Program for Directing Recompilation.
@b{make} Version 3.79}.  
Boston 2000.  
Free Software Foundation, Inc.   
@w{ISBN: 1-882114-80-9.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Stallman, Richard M. 
@i{Using and Porting the GNU Compiler Collection}.
For GCC Version 3.3.2.
Boston 2003.  
Free Software Foundation, Inc.   
@bibskip

@noindent
Stroustrup, Bjarne.
@i{The @cpp{} Programming Language}.
Special Edition.
Reading, Massachusetts 2000. 
Addison-Wesley.
@w{ISBN 0-201-70073-5.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Stroustrup, Bjarne.
@i{The Design and Evolution of @cpp{}}.
Reading, Massachusetts 1994. 
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company.
@w{ISBN 0-201-54330-3.}
@bibskip

@noindent
Vredeman de Vries, Jan.
@i{Perspective}.
New York 1968.
Dover Publications, Inc.
@w{Standard Book Number: 486-21086-4.}

@display
The beautiful perspective constructions in this volume are taken from
the original work, first published by Henricus Hondius in Leiden in 1604
and 1605. 
@end display
@bibskip

@noindent
White, Gwen.
@i{Perspective.  A Guide for Artists, Architects and Designers}.
London 1968 and 1982.
B T Batsford Ltd.
@w{ISBN 0-7134-3412-0.}





