@c  This is ~/metafont/metapost/perspective/DOCUMENTATION/future.texi
  
@c This file is part of the 3DLDF User and Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 The Free Software Foundation 
@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.


@node Future Plans, Changes, Adding a File, Top
@chapter Future Plans

3DLDF is a work-in-progress.  In fact, it can never be 
finished, because the supply of interesting geometric constructions 
is inexhaustible.  However, presently 3DLDF still has a number of major
gaps. 

If you're interesting in contributing to 3DLDF, with respect to one of
the topics below and in the following sections, or if you have ideas 
of your own, see @ref{Contributing to 3DLDF}.

@itemize @bullet
@item Input routine.  
The lack of one is the most significant
defect in 3DLDF, as mentioned in @ref{No Input Routine}.  

@item Port to other platforms.
@xref{Ports}.
@end itemize
 
@menu
* Geometry::                    
* Curves and Surfaces::         
* Shadows::                     
* Multi-Threading::             
@end menu

@node Geometry, Curves and Surfaces, Future Plans, Future Plans
@section Geometry

3DLDF currently provides a set of basic plane and solid geometrical
figures.  However, some important ones are still missing.  
There are many useful geometrical data types and functions whose
implementation would require no more than elementary geometry.  

@itemize @bullet

@item
Add constructors with a normal vector argument rather than angles of
rotation about the main axes.

@item
I have started defining @code{class Triangle}, which can be used for 
calculating triangle solutions.

@item
@cindex multiple inheritance
@cindex derived classes
@cindex derivation
@c
Add a class @code{Conic_Section} and derive @code{Ellipse} 
from it.  This will be the first case of 
@dfn{multiple inheritance}@c
@c
@footnote{Stroustrup, @cite{The @cpp{} Programming Language}, 
@c
@iftex 
@tex 
\S 15.2 
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifhtml 
&sect;15.2
@end ifhtml
@ifinfo 
section 15.2
@end ifinfo
@c
``Multiple Inheritance'', pp.@w{ }390--92.}  
@c
in 3DLDF, since @code{Ellipse} is already
derived from @code{Path}.  @xref{Ellipse Reference}. 
Add the classes @code{Parabola} and @code{Hyperbola}.

@item
Add more functions for finding the intersections of objects of various
types, starting with the plane figures.  
In particular, I believe I've found an algebraic solution for 
the intersection of an @code{Ellipse} and a @code{Circle} in a plane,
but I haven't had a chance to try implementing it yet.

If this works, I think it will make it possible to find the intersection
of two coplanar ellipses algebraically, because it will be possible to
transform them both such that one of them becomes circular.  


@item Class @code{Octahedron} will complete the set of regular Platonic 
polyhedra.  

@item
Add classes for the Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra, the semi-regular
Archimedean polyhedra,  the dual solids, the stellated Archimedean
polyhedra, and the regular compounds.@c
@c
@footnote{Cundy and Rollet, @cite{Mathematical Models}, Chapter 3,
``Polyhedra'', pp.@: 76--160.} 

@item
Add class @code{Ellipsoid} and a derived class @code{Sphere}. 

@item
Improve the specification of @code{Solid} and
@code{Solid_Faced}.  
In particular, it would help to store the vertices of 
@code{Polyhedra} as individual @code{Points}, rather
than using @code{Reg_Polygons}.  I'd also
like to find a better way of generating @code{Solids}, without using
rotations, if possible. 

@end itemize

@node Curves and Surfaces, Shadows, Geometry, Future Plans
@section Curves and Surfaces

@cindex splines
@cindex spline curves
@cindex B@'ezier curves
@cindex B-splines
@cindex NURBS (non-uniform rational B-splines)
@cindex non-uniform rational B-splines (NURBS)
@cindex patches
@cindex surface patches
@c
3D modelling software usually supports the creation and manipulation of
various kinds of @dfn{spline curves}: @dfn{B@'ezier curves},
@dfn{B-splines}, and @dfn{non-uniform rational B-splines} or
@dfn{NURBS}.  These curves can be used for generating surfaces.@c
@c
@footnote{Huw Jones,
@i{Computer Graphics through Key Mathematics}, and 
David Salomon,  
@i{Computer Graphics and Geometric Modeling}, are my main sources of
information about spline curves.}

@cindex projective invariance
@cindex invariance, projective
@c
@code{paths} in Metafont and MetaPost are B@'ezier curves.  
It would be possible to implement three-dimensional B@'ezier curves in
3DLDF, but unfortunately they are not @dfn{projectively invariant}: 

Let @math{c_0} represent a B@'ezier curve in three dimensions,
@math{P} the control points of @math{c_0}, and  
@math{t} a projection transformation.
Further, let @math{Q} represent the points generated from applying
@math{t} to @math{P}, and @math{c_1} the curve generated from @math{Q}.  
Finally, let @math{R} represent the points generated from applying
@math{t} to all of the points on @math{c_0}, and 
 @math{c_2} the curve through @math{R}:
@math{c_1 \not\equiv c_2}.

@cindex NURBS (non-uniform rational B-splines)
@cindex non-uniform rational B-splines (NURBS)
@cindex projective invariance
@cindex invariance, projective
@c
NURBS, on the other hand, are projectively invariant,@c
@c
@footnote{Jones, Huw.
@i{Computer Graphics through Key Mathematics}, p.@w{ }282.}
@c 
so I will probably
concentrate on implementing them.  On the other hand, it would be nice
to be able to implement Metafont's way of specifying @code{paths} 
using `@code{curl}', `@code{tension}', and `@code{dir}' in 3DLDF. 
This may prove to be difficult or impossible.  I do not yet know
whether Metafont's @code{path} creation algorithm can be generalized to
three dimensions.@c
@c
@footnote{Knuth, Donald Ervin.
@i{The METAFONTbook}, p.@w{ }130, and 
Hobby, John D. 
@i{Smooth, Easy to Compute Interpolating Splines}. 
Discrete and Computational Geometery 1(2).} 

Curves and surfaces are advanced topics, so it may be a while
before I implement them in 3DLDF.

@node Shadows, Multi-Threading, Curves and Surfaces, Future Plans
@section Shadows, Reflections, and Rendering

@cindex shadows
@cindex reflections
@c
Shadows and reflections are closely related to transformations and
projections.
A shadow is the projection of the outline of an object onto a surface or
surfaces, and reflection in a plane is an affine transformation.  

@cindex shading
@c
3D rendering software generally implements shadows, or more generally, 
@dfn{shading}, reflections, and certain other effects using methods
involving the calculation of individual pixel values.  
Surface hiding is also often implemented at the pixel level.
3DLDF does no scan converting ((@pxref{Accuracy}), and hence
no calculation of pixel values at all, so these methods cannot be
used in 3DLDF at present. 

However, it is possible to define functions for generating
shadows and reflections within 3DLDF by other means.  

I have defined the function @code{Point::reflect()} for reflecting a
@code{Point} in a @code{Plane}, and have begun definining versions for
other classes.  

However, in order for reflections to work, I must define functions for
breaking up objects into smaller units.  This is also necessary for
surface hiding to work properly.  

For MetaPost output, I will have to implement shadows, reflections, and
surface hiding in this way.  However, 3DLDF could be made to produce
output in other formats.  There are two possibilities:  implementing
rendering functionality within 3DLDF, or interfacing to
existing rendering software.  If I decide to do the latter, there are
again two possibilities:  having 3DLDF write output in a format that a
renderer can input, or linking to a library supplied by a rendering
package. 

I haven't yet decided which course to pursue.  However, in the long run,
I'd like it to be possible to use 3DLDF for fancier graphics than is 
currently possible using MetaPost and PostScript alone.

@node Multi-Threading,  , Shadows, Future Plans
@section Multi-Threading

@cindex multi-threading
@c
When 3DLDF is run, there is only one thread of execution.  
However, it could benefit from the use of multiple threads.  
In particular, it may be faster and more efficient to have
@code{Picture::output()} run in its own thread.  
In this case, it will no longer be possible to share
@code{current_picture} among figures.  

It may also be
worthwhile to execute the code for ``figures'', i.e., the code 
between @samp{beginfig()} and @samp{endfig()}, inclusive, 
in their own threads.  This will require some changes in the way data
are handled.  For example, if non-constant objects are shared
among figures, there may be no advantage to multi-threading because of
the need to coordinate the access of the threads to the objects. 
If threads are used, then non-constant objects should be 
declared locally within the figure.  They may be locally declared 
copies of global objects.  Alternatively,  @code{beginfig()} could be
changed so that objects could be passed to it as  arguments, perhaps as
a @code{vector<void*>} and/or a @code{vector<Shape*>}.

@c Local Variables:
@c eval:(outline-minor-mode)
@c eval:(read-abbrev-file)
@c run-texi2dvi-on-file:"3DLDF.texi"
@c run-dvips-on-file:"3DLDF.dvi"
@c End:





