@c gstransf.texi
  
@c This file is part of the 3DLDF User and Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 The Free Software Foundation 
@c See the section "GNU Free Documentation License" in the file 
@c fdl.texi for copying conditions.

@node Transforms, Drawing and Labeling Points, Transforming Points, Top
@chapter Transforms

@tindex Transform 
When @code{Points} are transformed using @code{shift()}, @code{shear()},
or one of the other transformation functions, the 
@code{world_coordinates} are not modified directly.  Instead,
another data member of @code{class Point} is used to store the
information about the transformation, namely @code{transform} of
type @code{class Transform}.  A @code{Transform} object has a single
data element of type @code{Matrix} and a number of member functions.  A
@code{Matrix} is 
simply a 
@c
@iftex
@tex 
$4\times 4$
@end tex
@end iftex
@c
@ifnottex
@math{4 X 4} 
@end ifnottex
@c
array@footnote{It is unfortunate that 
the terms ``array'', ``matrix'', and ``vector'' have different meanings
in @cpp{} and in normal mathematical usage. However, in practice, these
discrepancies turn out not to cause many problems.  Stroustrup,
@cite{The @cpp{} Programming Language}, @SECT{} 22.4, p.@: 662.}  
@c
of @code{reals}
defined using @code{typedef real Matrix[4][4]}.  
Such a matrix suffices for performing all
of the transformations (affine and perspective) possible in
three-dimensional space.@c
@c
@footnote{In fact, none of the operations for
transformations require all of the elements of a 
@c
@iftex
@tex 
$4\times 4$
@end tex
@end iftex
@c
@ifnottex
@math{4 X 4} 
@end ifnottex
@c
matrix.  In many
3D graphics programs, the matrix operations are modified to use smaller
transformation matrices, which reduces the storage requirements of the
program.  This is a bit tricky, because the affine transformations and
the perspective transformation use different elements of the matrix.  I
consider that the risk of something going wrong, possibly producing
hard-to-find bugs, outweighs any benefits from saving memory (which
is usually no longer at a premium, anyway).  In addition, there may be
some interesting non-affine transformations that would be worth
implementing.  Therefore, I've decided to
use full 
@c
@iftex
@tex 
$4\times 4$
@end tex
@end iftex
@c
@ifnottex
@math{4 X 4} 
@end ifnottex
@c
matrices in 3DLDF.}
@c
Any combination of transformations can be represented by a single
transformation matrix.  This means that consecutive transformations
of a @code{Point} can be ``saved up'' and applied to its coordinates 
all at once when needed, rather than updating them for each
transformation.  

@cindex homogeneous coordinates 
@c
@code{Transforms} work by performing matrix multiplication of
@code{Matrix} with the homogeneous @code{world_coordinates} of
@code{Points}.  
If a set of homogeneous coordinates 
@math{\alpha = (x, y, z, w)} 
and 
@c
@iftex 
@tex 
$${\rm @code{Matrix}~} M=\pmatrix{a&e&i&m\cr
                                  b&f&j&n\cr
                                  c&g&k&o\cr
                                  d&h&l&p\cr}$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@c
@ifnottex 
@display 
@code{Matrix M} =
a e i m
b f j n
c g k o
d h l p
@end display
@end ifnottex 
@c
then the set of homogeneous coordinates @math{\beta} resulting from
multiplying @math{\alpha} and @math{M} is calculated as follows:
@c
@iftex 
@tex 
$$ \beta = 
\alpha\times M=((xa + yb + zc + wd), 
                (xe + yf + zg + wh), (xi + yj + zk + wl),
                (xm + yn + zo + wp))$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifnottex 
@display
@math{\beta = \alpha\times M = ((xa + yb + zc + wd),  (xe + yf + zg + wh), 
(xi + yj + zk + wl), (xm + yn + zo + wp))}
@end display
@end ifnottex 
@c
Please note that each coordinate of @math{\beta} can be influenced by all of the
coordinates of @math{\alpha}.  

Operations on
matrices are very important in computer graphics applications and are
described in many books about computer graphics and geometry.  For
3DLDF, I've mostly used Huw Jones' 
@cite{Computer Graphics through Key Mathematics} 
and David Salomon's @cite{Computer Graphics and Geometric Modeling}.  

@c
@tindex Transform
@c
It is often useful to declare and use @code{Transform} objects in 3DLDF,
just as it is for @code{transforms} in Metafont.  Transformations can be
stored in @code{Transforms} and then be used to transform @code{Points} 
by means of @code{Point::operator*=(const Transform&)}.

@example
@r{1.} Transform t;
@r{2.} t.shift(0, 1);
@r{3.} Point p(1, 0, 0);
@r{4.} p *= t;
@r{5.} p.show("p:");
@print{} p: (1, 1, 0)
@end example


@cindex identity matrix 
@cindex matrix, identity 
@cindex matrix operations 
@cindex operations, matrix 
@c
When a @code{Transform} is declared (line 1), it is
initialized to an @dfn{identity matrix}.  All identity matrices are
square, all of the elements of the main diagonal (upper left to lower
right) are 1, and all of the other elements are 0.
So a 
@c
@iftex
@tex 
$4\times 4$
@end tex
@end iftex
@c
@ifnottex
@math{4 X 4} 
@end ifnottex
@c
identity matrix, as used in 3DLDF, looks like this:
@c
@iftex 
@tex
$$\pmatrix{1&0&0&0\cr
           0&1&0&0\cr
           0&0&1&0\cr
           0&0&0&1\cr}$$
@end tex
@end iftex
@c
@ifnottex 
@display 
1 0 0 0
0 1 0 0
0 0 1 0
0 0 0 1
@end display
@end ifnottex 
@c
If a matrix @math{A} is multiplied with an identity matrix @math{I}, the result is
identical to @math{A}, i.e., 
@c
@iftex
@tex
$A \times I = A$.
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifnottex 
A * I = A.
@end ifnottex 
@c
This is the salient property of an identity matrix.  

The same affine transformations are applied in the same way to
@code{Transforms} as they are to @code{Points}, i.e., the functions 
@code{scale()}, @code{shift()}, 
@code{shear()}, and @code{rotate()} 
correspond to the @code{Point}
versions of these functions, and they take the same arguments:

@example
Point p;
Transform t;
p.shift(3, 4, 5);
t.shift(3, 4, 5);
@result{} p.transform @equiv{} t
p.show_transform("p:");
@print{} p:
   Transform:
         0   0.707   0.707       0 
    -0.866   0.354  -0.354       0 
      -0.5  -0.612   0.612       0 
         0       0       0       1 
t.show("t:");
@print{} t:
         0   0.707   0.707       0 
    -0.866   0.354  -0.354       0 
      -0.5  -0.612   0.612       0 
         0       0       0       1 

@end example
 

@menu
* Applying Transforms to Points Intro::  
* Inverting Transforms::        
@end menu

@node Applying Transforms to Points Intro, Inverting Transforms, Transforms, Transforms
@section Applying Transforms to Points

A @code{Transform} @math{t} is applied to a
@code{Point} @math{P} using the binary @code{*=} operation
(@code{Point::operator*=(const Transform&)})
which performs matrix multiplication of @code{P.transform} by @code{t}.
@xref{Point Operators, ,Point Reference; Operators}. 

@example
Point P(0, 1);
Transform t;
t.rotate(90);
t.show("t:");
@print{} t:
   1       0       0       0 
   0       0      -1       0 
   0       1       0       0 
   0       0       0       1 
P *= t;
P.show_transform("P:");
@print{} P:
Transform:
   1       0       0       0 
   0       0      -1       0 
   0       1       0       0 
   0       0       0       1 
P.show("P:");
@print{} P: (0, 0, -1)
@end example


In the example above, there is no real need to use a @code{Transform},
since @code{P.rotate(90)} could  have been called directly.
As constructions become more complex, the power of @code{Transforms}
becomes clear:


@c !! TO DO: Maybe make @code{Points} the same to begin with.  
@c LDF 2003.08.15. 
@c
@example
@r{1.} Point p0(0, 0, 0);
@r{2.} Point p1(10, 5, 10);
@r{3.} Point p2(16, 14, 32);
@r{4.} Point p3(25, 50, 99);
@r{5.} Point p4(12, 6, 88);
@r{6.} Transform a;
@r{7.} a.shift(2, 3, 4);
@r{8.} a.scale(1, 3, 1);
@r{9.} p2 *= p3 *= a;
@r{10.} a.rotate(p0, p1, 75);
@r{11.} p4 *= a;
@r{12.} p2.show("p2:");
   @print{} p2: (18, 51, 36)
@r{13.} p3.show("p3:");
   @print{} p3: (27, 159, 103)
@r{14.} p4.show("p4:");
   @print{} p4: (24.4647, -46.2869, 81.5353)
@end example


@c !!  TO DO: If I change the example above, I may have to change this
@c paragraph.  LDF 2003.08.15.
@c
In this example, @math{a} is shifted and scaled, and @math{a} is applied
to both in line 9.  This works, because
the binary operation   
@code{operator*=(const Transform& t)} returns @var{t},
making it possible to chain invocations of @code{*=}.
Following this, @math{a} is rotated 
@DEG{75}
about the line through @math{p_0} and @math{p_1}.  
Finally, all three transformations, which are stored in @math{a}, are
applied to @math{p_4}. 

@node Inverting Transforms,  , Applying Transforms to Points Intro, Transforms
@section Inverting Transforms

@cindex matrix inversion 
@cindex inversion 
@dfn{Inversion} is another operation that can be performed on
@code{Transforms}.  This makes it possible to reverse the effect of a
@code{Transform}, which may represent multiple transformations.

@example
@group
Point p;
Transform t;
t.shift(1, 2, 3);
t.scale(2, 3, 4);
t.rotate(45, 45, 30);
t.show("t:");
@print{} t:
   1.22   0.707    1.41       0 
  0.238    2.59    -1.5       0 
  -3.15    1.45       2       0 
  -7.74    10.2    4.41       1 
p *= t;
p.show("p:");
@print{} p: (-7.74, 10.2, 4.41)
Transform u;
u = t.inverse();
u.show("u:");
@print{} u:
  0.306  0.0265  -0.197 2.85e-09 
  0.177   0.287  0.0906 -1.12e-09 
  0.354  -0.167   0.125       0 
     -1      -2      -3       1 
p *= u;
p.show("p:");
@print{} p: (0, 0, 0)
u *= t;
u.show("u:");
@print{} u:
      1       0       0       0
      0       1       0       0
      0       0       1       0
      0       0       0       1
@end group
@end example

If @code{inverse()} is called with no argument, or with the argument
@code{false}, it returns a
@code{Transform} representing its inverse, and remains unchanged.  If it
is called with the argument @code{true}, it is set to its inverse.

Complete reversal of the transformations applied to a @code{Point}, as
in the previous example, probably won't make much sense.  However,
partial reversal is a valuable technique.  For example, it is used in 
@code{rotate()} for rotation about a line defined by two @code{Points}. 
The following example merely demonstrates the basic principle;  an
example that does something useful would be too complicated.  

@c !! TO DO:  Change this example so that it demonstrates rotation about
@c a line defined by two @code{Points}.  Change the paragraph above to
@c correspond.  LDF 2003.08.15.
@c
@example
@group 
Transform t;
t.shift(3, 4, 5);
t.rotate(45);
t.scale(2, 2, 2);
Point p;
p *= t;
p.show("p:");
@print{} p: (6, 12.7279, 1.41421)
t.inverse(true);
p.rotate(90, 90);
p *= t;
p.show("p:");
@print{} p: (3.36396, -5.62132, -2.37868)
@end group
@end example
   
